-[birds singing]
-[telephone line dialing]
[suspenseful music playing]
[woman 1] 911. What's your emergency?
[woman 2 breathing heavily]
Somebody came from behind me
and shoved me against my wall
and started to choke me…
[sobs] …and were telling me
that I'm going to fucking get it.
[woman 2 hyperventilating]
I tried to move and he grabbed me.
He had me pinned back
by the hair at the neck.
[music turns ominous]
My husband's ex has been threatening
to rape, kill my child.
[chimes]
…the strange and violent stalking case.
Police say a woman used an online ad
to terrorize another woman.
I got another email from her.
[chimes]
She's been at my work.
She knows what I look like.
[ominous music continues]
[man] How do we combat this woman?
What do we do?
[chimes]
[music fades]
[poignant music playing]
[children chattering indistinctly]
[woman 3] I have two wishes.
First wish is
I wish none of this happened.
And my second wish is…
[inhales deeply, sighs]
…I wish that everyone
would just tell the truth
about the events of this story.
[poignant music continues]
In 2016, Ian and I had been friends
for almost 20 years.
We worked together at Disneyland.
His mom had moved to another state,
so I became his means of support.
I just remember laughing
and having so much fun
any time I was with him.
He's just that guy.
When the opportunity came
for him to apply to be a deputy
with the U.S. Marshals Service,
Ian was thrilled.
The U.S. Marshals represent
the Department of Justice.
He would transport inmates
from prison to prison,
and he was responsible
for protecting federal judges.
So it was an important job.
Ian was, without a doubt,
a person I'd trust with my entire life.
Most people question
the relationship that Ian and I had,
but our friendship was just a friendship
and not a romantic relationship.
So when he met Angela,
nothing made me happier.
Ian always wanted to be married,
and he wanted to have kids.
And he was really excited
that Angela wanted the same things.
We met at the Starbucks in Anaheim.
We just hit it off.
And so she moved into my condo.
[dog barks]
Daphne, do you want to look at the camera?
Oh! Can you look at the camera?
[Ian] The smile alone…
The smile was killer.
She was just a sweetheart.
Two, three weeks go by,
I proposed to her.
Because she was everything
I ever wanted in a woman.
[music turns pensive]
[Leslie] So within
a few months of meeting,
Ian and Angela are living together,
married, and expecting twins.
[music fades]
And Ian's thrilled
because he's always wanted to be a dad.
-[birds singing]
-[dogs barking]
During this time, we sit down for dinner,
and Ian tells me
that Angela's been receiving these emails…
[chimes]
…from someone called "Lilithistruth."
[ominous music playing]
They have this biblical undertone.
The nature of them are super threatening.
We had no clue what Lilith was.
Ian and I both had to google it.
[ominous music continues]
There are legends that Adam had a wife
before Eve who was named Lilith.
She was banished from the Garden of Eden
because she did not want
to submit to Adam.
Lilith was an evil, wicked woman
who committed adultery with Satan
and produced a race of evil creatures.
Lilith transformed into an evil demon,
out for revenge to kidnap and kill
newborn children in the night.
Ian was really freaked out.
[Ian] Scared the hell out of me.
I had no idea where that came from.
Angela was really upset.
-[car alarm blaring distantly]
-[dogs barking]
[haunting sting plays]
[Leslie] Sometime later, Angela says
she thinks someone has been lurking
outside of the condo.
She couldn't see who it was,
but she felt really uneasy about it.
[ominous music continues]
[chimes]
-[dogs barking]
-[crossing signal beeping]
[dog whines]
[chimes]
Who is doing this?
-[dogs barking]
-[tires screech]
[car engine revving]
[ominous music continues]
Four months before meeting Angela,
Ian had broken up with his ex, Michelle…
and it was anything but simple
of a breakup
because he was still living in the condo
that they owned together.
[Ian] I do not hate Michelle.
I have never hated Michelle.
I just wanted her out of my life.
And, unfortunately,
we were tied together by that condo.
And I did want to resolve it.
We were both thinking
the exact same thing, which is…
Holy shit.
It's Michelle sending the emails.
[chimes]
-Going to the police seemed necessary.
-[music fades]
[male officer] I have
the report from yesterday.
-I'm wondering what happened today.
-Today I got another email from her.
She's been at my work.
She knows what I look like.
She's described
what I dressed in detail last night.
And I'm either safer in my home,
where at least I know that I'm okay,
or I go to work and risk it.
I don't even know her capabilities.
I've never met her.
So I'm dealing with this unknown.
The gal at the sheriff's office said,
"You need to call them out again,
request an emergency protective order."
So, yeah.
[male officer] You understand that
the Emergency Protective Order,
they're typically for domestic violence.
Somebody got arrested,
and the problem is she's not served yet.
It's a criminal threat, but you can't
do anything until you get her.
Awesome. Well, thank you guys so much.
[male officer] You're welcome.
Hopefully, you can…
[Leslie] Ian and Angela were worried
because Anaheim PD don't have
enough probable cause to arrest Michelle.
This is still a very new relationship
between Ian and Angela,
and to be going through
something so abnormal,
it's not natural.
-And I felt for them.
-[Ian] I was scared.
I was definitely scared
because I didn't know what she was up to.
So we went to the police department,
and Angela filed a restraining order.
I offered to serve
the restraining order to Michelle.
[ominous music playing]
I was nervous.
You've been served.
But I was really, really hoping that
that would put an end to it
and everything can quiet down.
-[chimes]
-But nothing stopped.
The emails kept coming.
The threats kept coming.
So Ian and Angela call the police again.
[woman] Anaheim Police
Department dispatch.
[Angela] Hi, um, I have
several reports with you guys
over a temporary restraining order.
It was served upon the person
that I need protection from.
She has continued to send
her crazy, threatening, violent,
I'm-gonna-kill-you emails.
She actually did it
right after the cops
went to her house in Ontario, served her.
An hour later,
I got another one, and it's insane,
including really graphic photographs.
I was advised by my attorney
to contact you guys once again
to see if she could get arrested
because this has gone on far too long,
and she's obviously violated
the no-contact order.
[woman] Your name is?
[Angela] Angela,
and the last name's Diaz, D-I-A-Z.
[woman] Okay, I'll get them to call out.
[Ian] Come on in, guys.
My name's Ian. This is Angela.
Um…
These emails have pictures
of decapitated people,
aborted fetuses, decapitated fetuses.
You guys are the third group
of officers to come here.
-[male officer] Tonight?
-This last week, just this week.
So, restraining order,
and then this is the proof of service.
Okay.
How long have you known her for?
Uh…
Two years we were together, um,
and that ended in August, so…
I mean, do I know her now? No.
In the time you've known her,
have you ever seen her be violent
or anything like that?
She took a knife
into that bathroom right there…
She's crazy.
…and told me that she had
a moment where she wanted to kill herself.
And she threatened to burn this
motherfucker down with both of them in it.
When… A week before she left,
she was very emotional…
This is August of last year?
Yeah, August of last year,
a week before she left.
Last week of August,
she told me, in a crying fit of rage,
with her eyes wide open
but tears streaming down her face,
it was freaky,
um, that she wished she could burn…
this whole motherfucker down
with me, you, and the dog in it.
Or the-- I have a Yorkie.
I haven't seen my friends or anybody.
My mom has to come out here.
Everybody's lives have to be halted
for a minute because she's crazy.
[sighs]
[chimes]
[ominous music playing]
[Leslie] Every single day,
every time I would see
Ian's name pop up on my phone,
I thought, "Oh my God, what now?"
[chimes]
And then something unbelievable happened.
Michelle responded
to an ad on Craigslist for fantasy rape
with photographs of Angela,
inviting the guy to show up at the condo
to rape Angela,
saying, "Come to my house,
and even if I scream, don't stop."
[unsettling music playing]
[Rick] I get this message
from Lilithistruth
saying she's interested
in doing a rape fantasy.
She sends me her address in Anaheim
and her pictures,
and she says, "Just show up."
"I'll leave the door open for you,
and pin me down and do whatever you want."
I replied, "I was thinking
about a home invasion scenario
where you would be in your bed sleeping."
"I don't want a neighbor
to see a struggle and call the cops."
[telephone line dialing]
[woman] Anaheim Police.
[Angela] Hi, my name is Angela Diaz,
and I have open cases with Anaheim PD
and a served restraining order
on a person named Michelle Hadley.
She has yet again
violated that restraining order.
I've been receiving emails today from her
saying that she has somebody
that's going to come
attack me and rape me.
[woman] We'll send someone out
as soon as we can.
-[music fades]
-[female officer] So what's going on?
My name's Ian.
I'm a U.S. Marshal. Sorry, this is Angela.
-Hi.
-Uh…
[Ian] This ex-girlfriend
of mine, Michelle,
she's stating that she's going to have
this guy come over.
She's gonna give him the address,
and come over and…
uh, rape her and beat her, right?
This is what she wrote to this guy.
"Hi there, I've been dying
to have a rape fantasy occur,
watched while walking my dog,
follow me to the door,
force me into the condo,
force me not to scream, drag me upstairs
and take me from behind on the bed."
"If you can fulfil this tonight,
please let me know."
"I am 30, tall, gorgeous, and ready.
My address is…" This address.
"I have a Yorkie I walk every night,
say 8:00 p.m.? Come find me."
[unsettling music playing]
[Rick] As I'm parking,
I'm feeling excited.
I'm getting a rush of dopamine,
thinking, "I'm gonna go
and get this done."
[music fades]
But once I got to the building,
I noticed the name Ian Diaz.
And it stopped me cold.
I don't want to be
walking into a situation
where the boyfriend
or the husband doesn't know,
and then I get beat up or murdered.
So I left.
[unsettling music resumes]
[female officer] 224?
I'm 97 and I'm at apartment 2.
Uh, the only description that they have
is that it's a male in dark clothing.
So we have the helicopter up above.
Obviously, make sure
your doors are locked and all that,
and if you think the guy is back,
or he's sending you guys emails,
or he knocks on the door,
give us a call back.
-Thanks very much.
-No problem.
-Sorry about this.
-No worries.
[chimes]
[ominous music playing]
Ian is trying to keep it all together,
but I could hear it in his voice
that there was some deep fear there.
[Ian] At what point
does this girl get arrested
for sending this shit and hiring guys
off of Craigslist to rape her?
I'm just curious.
[Leslie] Why isn't Michelle in custody?
Or at the very least, being questioned?
[Ian] How do we combat this woman?
What do we do?
Am I supposed to continually
just be in my house all the time?
[Leslie] There was a part of me thinking,
"You need to get the hell out
of this condo."
"You gotta move out."
"It's scorched earth."
[music intensifies]
[vibrating]
[Leslie] By this point,
Ian was feeling incredibly stressed out.
He doesn't know how much more
of these emails he can take.
And then all of a sudden, he says,
"Leslie, you're not gonna believe this."
[woman 1 on radio] This is 587,
be advised, we've fixed the location…
[woman 2] 911. What's your emergency?
[Angela breathing heavily]
Somebody came from behind me
and shoved me against my wall
and started to choke me
and were telling me
I'm gonna fucking get it,
and it's time for me to get raped.
[Angela hyperventilating]
[woman 2] Okay.
How many individuals were there?
[Angela] Just one, and he was
wearing a black thing over his face.
-[woman 2] Like a black ski mask?
-[Angela] Yes.
[woman 2] Okay. We have somebody
on the way right now, okay, ma'am?
-[Angela] Okay.
-[woman 2] Okay.
-[indistinct police radio chatter]
-[Angela breathing heavily]
[woman 2] Do you see the officers yet?
[Angela] Yeah, I see.
He's actually right here with me.
[woman 2] He's with you?
[Angela] Yes.
[officer 1] Hey, there.
-Can I turn the light on? That all right?
-[Angela] Yes.
Okay.
Is that your makeup
on the wall right there?
-[Angela] Yes.
-Okay.
I just didn't know what was happening,
and then all he said was--
I tried to move. He grabbed me.
He had me pinned back
by the hair at the neck.
And shoved like that, and he told me,
"Now you're gonna get it.
You'll finally get raped."
For about a month, my husband's ex
has been threatening to rape,
kill my child.
-[officer 2] And what's her name, ma'am?
-The girl is Michelle Hadley.
[officer 2] What wall did
he actually put you up against? Here?
First, it was a knock here. Right here.
-And then here was my face.
-Okay.
If I had to bet,
it's from another Craigslist ad
that this guy showed up, probably.
And she's probably responding to him too,
and didn't send it
to you or somebody else,
so who knows where it went.
She didn't give you a warning.
Here's what'll happen, okay?
I have the warrant in my car,
and I'm going to go out there
and grab her.
-[tense music playing]
-[indistinct police radio chatter]
[siren wailing distantly]
[man 1] Just relax.
I just have a couple of questions.
Some things are going on with you and Ian.
[woman] Yes, I know. Yeah.
[man 1] He made a report with us,
and he brought in some e-mails
that came from you.
[woman] One of which probably sounded
a little crazy, and I do know that, yeah.
[man 1] Okay.
"Lilith is truth."
Do you know anything about that?
What that means or anything?
[woman] No.
[indistinct police radio chatter]
-[car doors slamming]
-[dog barking]
[man 2] We hear a car door slamming.
We got a little dog, starts barking.
When I came out,
there's the two detectives,
and I ask them,
"What's going on out here?"
He says, "We're arresting your daughter."
I say, "What for?"
"What evidence could you possibly have?"
[man 1] Everything right now
is looking like
you have some type
of responsibility for it.
And I just-- I'd like to get
more answers from you.
We're going to place you
into custody right now. Okay?
Okay.
-[tense music continues]
-[indistinct police radio chatter]
[dog barking]
[music fades]
[man 1] Why don't you give us
your full and complete name, please.
[woman] Michelle Suzanne Hadley.
-[man 1] And what's your date of birth?
-[Michelle] 12-20-1986.
[man 1] All right, Michelle,
one of the things you have to keep in mind
is you have to be completely truthful
and candid with us today.
So if we find out
that anything you've said is untrue,
then I can use the statements
you give to us today in trial.
Before I start, though,
you kind of see all these emails here?
-There's a lot of them.
-[Michelle] Yeah.
[man 1] "I've been more than patient.
My patience has come to an end."
And then on the email, September 10,
2015, this is a reference towards Lilith.
"Get ready, the truth is coming."
"God's law is above all laws,
including the law of man."
So did you write this?
[Michelle] Yeah, that was me.
[unsettling music playing]
I don't even really understand
where a lot of it came from
or why I wrote it.
I listened to a lot of sermons growing up,
and so it almost was like
some weird brain dump from childhood.
[man] Who's Lilith?
Educate me.
[Michelle] It's almost like
the alternate persona
of, like, a devil character,
like the female side.
[man] The female side of who?
[Michelle] Of, you know,
I guess like a Satan or a devil character.
[man] So Lilith is the anti-Jesus?
-Or the female side?
-[Michelle] Yeah, I guess so, yeah.
It's hard to explain
because it's not really like
anything else I've ever experienced.
You're just like,
"Okay, like, what did I even do?"
Like, I don't even know what happened.
And I thought, "Oh my God,
I really am losing my mind."
[inhales, sighs]
[man] Let's talk about Ian.
How did you first meet him?
[Michelle] In 2013,
I was doing online dating.
[chiming]
I wanted the white picket fence life.
And then I matched
with this U.S. Marshal named Ian.
[pensive music playing]
So I said yes.
I grew up watching
all of the Disney princess shows on TV,
and I really bought into it,
that if you were a nice girl,
you got your prince at the end.
[whimsical music playing]
I quickly learned
that Ian was really into Disneyland.
He told me he went all the time,
like, multiple times a week. [laughs]
As we're walking around,
he's showing off his knowledge
of how things worked behind the scenes.
And it turns out
he worked there for many years.
[children laughing and chattering]
[Michelle] We were
talking about princesses,
and he told me
his favorite princess was Belle.
That was his type,
and that I was like her.
I had never met someone
who was this into Disney as an adult.
But he told me that some
of his best memories with his dad,
who he did not have
a good relationship with,
were at Disneyland.
I'm thinking, "How sweet."
I love when men are vulnerable,
and it was such a magical environment
that I remember also feeling
a little bit swept away in the moment.
So I was super excited
to do a trip to New York City together
a few months later.
It's very romantic around Christmas.
[whimsical music continues]
Ian was super excited
that we were in New York City.
So he was videoing everything.
I wasn't used to people videoing me,
so I remember feeling
a little bit awkward.
Are you…?
-[Ian laughs]
-[laughs]
[Ian] Because you're so cute
when you walk through.
When you're looking at everything,
you're so adorable.
[Michelle] Ian was attentive.
He was sweet. He was thoughtful.
[Ian] Do you want to get a cookie?
I started seeing him
as a really good option
for a long-term relationship.
And so we decided to move in together.
[pensive music playing]
Ian actually brought up
the decision to buy.
And he finds these new construction condos
in downtown Anaheim.
The idea was that I would basically
front the money for the down payment,
then he would help out
with the mortgage payment.
I cleared out my entire savings account,
but I was super happy.
It just seemed like
the natural progression, right?
We're getting engaged.
We're going to need
a place to start our family.
We can literally drive to Disneyland
in, you know, ten minutes.
And, oh my God, we can also see
the fireworks from our balcony.
And that was actually the clincher.
-[crowd exclaiming]
-[music turns eerie]
[Michelle] But then,
once we moved into the condo together,
it felt like everything
took a turn for the worse.
And I just have no idea
how things got to a place
where I ended up literally considered
the craziest woman in Orange County.
A woman is behind bars this morning
in connection with a strange
and violent stalking case.
Michelle Hadley is facing
felony stalking charges
after harassing
her ex-boyfriend's pregnant wife.
[woman on TV] 29-year-old Hadley
used a rape fantasy online ad
to send people to her ex-boyfriend's home.
The man's new wife,
who was pregnant, by the way,
was actually attacked by one of the men
who responded to the ad.
[man on TV] They say she routed emails
through different computers and servers,
trying to evade police.
Hadley is being held on $1 million bail.
If convicted,
she faces up to life in prison.
-[Mike] I feel helpless.
-[music fades]
We have no idea what to do.
[ominous music playing]
When we raised our daughters,
one thing I always made clear to them
was you treat everybody
with respect and kindness.
So when they're accusing my daughter
of luring the men
to attack a pregnant woman,
the wife of a U.S. Marshal,
of course, I'm in shock.
[man on TV]
One of the most horrific stories
of mayhem and vengeance I've ever covered.
She could be looking
at upwards of life in prison.
[Mike] I've never
been to a jail in my life.
Michelle's mother, Suzanne,
and I are behind a big glass,
and they bring Michelle up,
and Michelle goes into the cage.
[ominous music continues]
Only really bad offenders go in the cage.
This is the saddest day of our life.
Attempted rapes, sexual assault, stalking,
and harassment.
It looks like she could get
a life sentence for all of this.
Our relatives think she did it.
Our friends think she did it.
But my mind is logical,
which equates into numbers.
It means that two and two is always four,
no matter what.
So when things don't make any sense,
that is not a world that I exist well in.
I would never, ever think
she would be capable of this.
So if Michelle didn't do this,
who's Lilith?
That's the question.
Who is Lilith?
[music turns pensive]
[man] It was in the summer of 2013.
I was in a little bar called Out of Bounds
in Huntington Beach.
I noticed a, uh, really, really
cute blonde, uh, walk through the doors.
She was flashy, she was cute,
you know, she walked with swagger.
She was hot.
I must've mentioned at some point
that I was in law enforcement,
and she said, "I am as well."
"I'm an attorney, and I work
with the Department of Justice."
So we had that in common.
And we exchanged numbers.
She introduced herself as Angie.
Her full name was Angela.
Angela was everything a guy would want
in a girlfriend, all across the board.
She was fun, funny,
kind, energetic, vivacious.
Each day that ticked by,
my feelings for her
got stronger and stronger.
A few months later,
she mentioned she wasn't happy
at her apartment in Irvine,
and I said,
"Well, why don't you just move in here?"
"You're here all the time anyway."
I was falling for her, there's no doubt.
[music turns poignant]
One night we were on the couch.
She divulged that she had cervical cancer,
and the cancer had progressed to stage 4.
I said, "Oh my God.
Okay, we're gonna beat this together."
"I want to be supportive.
I'll go to chemo appointments with you."
"No, no, no, you just work.
I know you need to work."
"You have an important job.
I can get there by myself."
Angela wanted to be strong,
and she wanted to do this herself.
I didn't like it, but I had to accept it.
[woman] I met Angela back in 2014.
She was just very warm and friendly,
and I thought, "Oh my God,
she's interested in my kids."
And anybody who wants to know
about my kids, I instantly love.
When Angela told me that she had cancer,
I could feel her pain. It was palpable.
And finding out so newly in knowing her
that she was sick,
I felt very maternal
and very protective towards her.
She was kind of
an injured bird in some ways,
and who doesn't want
to take care of an injured bird?
[poignant music continues]
Angie would come
to my son's Little League practice,
and we'd sit and just chat.
We would talk about her health,
about her dreams.
She was afraid that she was going to die.
And the more time that I spent with Angie,
I noticed that she got thinner,
that she got more pale.
She was throwing up
all the time from the chemo,
and she says, "I feel uncomfortable."
"I don't think that I'm pretty."
"I don't think Jason's gonna be
attracted to me anymore."
So to show support for Angie,
I cut my hair short
and put it on Facebook,
and I posted
a hashtag "Angie Warrior" on it.
[music fades]
There was one
particular doctor appointment
that Angela was going to,
and so I said,
"I'm going. I'm absolutely going."
I took the time off. I drove her there.
-[pensive music playing]
-[indistinct chatter]
[Jason] When we
got into the doctor's office,
she was adamant, "No, no, no."
She would not let me go in.
And I thought it was so weird and awkward,
and then I started looking around.
Something was wrong,
and I couldn't pinpoint what it was.
I asked the receptionist, you know,
"What kind of, uh…
you know,
cancer treatment center is this?"
That's when I discovered
that she was there
to have a mole
that she had on her ankle removed.
I confronted Angela.
She said, "That's part of it."
"I need to get the cancerous mole
removed as well."
That came across
as really, really weird to me.
[music fades]
[Mary] Angela was very upset
because she was losing her hair.
She had her hat on, of course,
and we'd be talking,
and I'd see her go like that.
At first, I thought she was concerned
because she didn't
want us to see she was balding.
[pensive music resumes]
But I'm realizing
she's pushing her hair up.
I didn't want to call her out on that
and be the asshole,
but I just had a strong inkling
that she was lying.
I'm thinking,
"This bitch has more hair than I do."
[pensive music continues]
Angela had text messaged me
her first-person perspective
from sitting in the chair
receiving her chemotherapy.
And I thought,
"Angela's not in this picture."
"Is this real?"
I did this online search.
I had to go through pages
upon pages upon pages.
I decided to call UCI where she said
that she was receiving her chemotherapy.
"Hi, my name's Mary."
"My friend Angie there,
I'm supposed to be picking her up
to take her home."
"She's there getting chemo."
"I have no idea how to find her,
and I can't get a hold of her right now."
"Can you help me?"
They said, "I am so sorry,
but as far as we know,
she's not a patient here."
She specifically was going there.
She'd sent me pictures
from getting chemo there.
[Jason] As I was just about to quit,
that very last page,
I found that exact photograph.
[music crescendos]
[music fades]
Oh my God, what?
It was taken by a guy that was
going through a battle with cancer.
[sighs] Oh, my heart sunk, you know,
all the way to the bottom of my feet.
Then I thought, "How do I get this person
out of my house?"
When I talked to Jason,
he asked me if I would come over
and help pack her shit.
[tense music playing]
I realized the journal that I got her,
it had notes scribbled on it
for her medical treatment,
but also it had, like, hearts
and scribbling about Jason.
How bad he would feel when she died,
and she wanted him to go on with his life.
She knew she wasn't dying, so why do that?
Did she want somebody to find it?
Is she that deranged
that she truly believed it?
We found in the bottom drawer,
there was medical tubing and gauze.
So she could make it look like
something was sticking out of a port.
I'm thinking, "Fuck you."
"I don't know what's going on.
You're lying to everybody."
"I don't know what your game is,
but I'm on to you."
[music crescendos, fades]
It was time for a confrontation.
[Jason] I invited everybody in our circle
that she had lied to,
manipulated, to my house.
[Angela] Hi. Life's good.
[Jason] Come on in. Have a seat.
-Welcome.
-Hi!
[Angela] Why is everybody here?
Please have a seat.
[Angela] What are you doing?
Okay. Here's what's going on.
Everybody in this room,
you owe a big, huge apology to.
-[Angela] For what?
-[Jason] Okay, for two things.
One, everybody in this room
is about to know two things.
You're not an attorney.
Yes, I actually am.
I got my law degree. I did.
-[Jason] Okay, and this…
-[laughter]
I laughed.
It's like, okay, that's total bullshit.
[Jason] Angela, you don't have cancer.
-Yes, I do.
-[Mary] No, you don't.
How do-- Would you like to speak
with my parents and everybody?
What are you talking about?
[Mary] Let's see your port.
-[Jason] Angela, just sit down.
-Yeah. What… Why…
-[Jason] Let's talk about some things.
-What are you guys talking about?
[Jason] Would you please just sit down?
-You know…
-That's fine.
Again, there's overwhelming proof
that you don't have cancer.
So everybody in this room
has been deceived,
and like I said,
I'm more heartbroken than anything else.
[Mary] I believed you,
and I welcomed you into my home,
and you lied to me.
-You lied to my children.
-I did not lie to you or your children.
-[Mary] Show me your port.
-[Jason] You're the ones that came to me.
[woman] It's in her fucking arm.
[Mary] Show me your…
-Let's see. Show me your port.
-It hurts.
-It fucking hurts.
-[Mary] Show me your port.
-It really fucking hurts.
[Jason] This picture said
"battle juice," right?
[Mary] Unwrap it.
[Jason] Portraying yourself as sitting
in the chair receiving chemotherapy.
Okay. Let's just go.
[Mary] Unwrap-- See?
There's nothing to show.
-You're a fucking liar.
-[tense chatter]
-[Mary] She's a liar.
-Sorry, but--
-I'm taking her with me.
-[Mary] Unwrap it.
-Then unwrap it.
-I am taking her with me. Right now.
[tense music playing]
[Mary] Show your port!
Show your port, liar!
Show your port!
You're probably even fired!
You probably don't even have a job!
[Jason] After Angela left,
I needed an absolute cutting of that tie.
There's so much deception
and so much dishonesty.
What is this woman capable of?
[music turns ominous]
-[lock clicks]
-[cell door opens]
[Mike] We went and saw Michelle
every… time we could in jail.
We're up to 80 days now,
and she's given up hope.
We just want her out of that jail cell.
We lost 70% of our family business
at that point.
[blows raspberry]
Straight into the hole.
Who wants to do business with…
the family whose daughter
solicits rape fantasies
to attack… a pregnant woman?
[music fades]
[portentous music playing]
[Leslie] Ian and Angela had been together
for eight months at this point.
Michelle was finally out of their lives,
and there are twins on the way.
Ian was excited and looking forward
to this new chapter in his life.
[music fades]
But then I am sleeping late at night…
[cell phone vibrating]
I get a call somewhere around 2:00 a.m.,
which is never a good feeling.
The first words out of Ian's mouth are…
"The twins are not real."
[music turns ominous]
I had to kind of re-- like…
get my thoughts together,
and I just said, "What? Wait, what?"
And he said,
"The sonogram of the twins…
was fake."
I'm thinking, "What the fuck?"
You know, Ian confronted Angela.
And Angela was
obstinate in her reply.
"How could you say that?"
"Of course they're real.
What are you talking about?"
But then she left immediately.
[pensive music playing]
Ian and I started to find pregnancy tests
in Ziploc bags with blue markers.
I'm thinking, "Oh, my God."
I thought, "Who is this person?"
Ian and I started to doubt
everything that Angela said
for that entire eight months
of being in Ian's life.
So we told the police everything.
[man] This is, to put it lightly,
a monster of a case.
And our job is to figure it out,
um, to find out who's doing what,
and we appreciate you coming in here
and making a statement.
-[Ian] No problem at all.
-[man] So let's talk about Angela.
You stated that your relationship
with Angela started January 2nd?
[Ian] We met at the Starbucks in Anaheim.
We just hit it off.
She was just a sweetheart.
Everything I ever wanted in a woman.
Everything.
Ian brought everything
that we had found in the condo.
-[man] You have pregnancy tests.
-[Ian] I do.
This was found after she left.
This is the one
that I was shown for the twins.
It's obviously been peed on.
And then I found these two
with a different kind of line in it.
-And then I found three different pens.
-[Leslie] All of these in the same box.
[Ian] And if you can tell
from the side here,
this one's been altered and opened up,
they all have.
-[man] So she drew the line in it.
-[Ian] She drew the line.
[Leslie] Ian explained to the police
the sonogram was fake.
[Ian] This just about
killed me, all right.
If you google "fake sonograms,"
that one comes up
at, like, number ten on Google Images.
With other people's names on it.
[music turns ominous]
Ian was disturbed by the whole thing
and sort of at a loss for what to do next.
He was not in a great place.
-[telephone line ringing]
-And he was calling Angela.
[Ian] Hey. I knew you
weren't gonna answer, and that's fine.
I just wanted to leave a message.
You lied about something
very, very severe.
And I think you can understand that.
I think anybody else would too.
I just hope
you're taking care of yourself. Bye.
[telephone line ringing]
It's Ian.
Just trying to give you a call
to see if you were available to talk.
The fact that I even
want to talk to you at this point
probably means I really do love you.
So… give me a call.
Love you.
After Angela left, I was starting
to uncover all sorts of wacky stuff.
-[man] She lied about her job?
-[Ian] Yes.
She admitted
that she did not have the job.
It felt like an immense responsibility
to be sure that the police knew
that there was some doubt
now applied to Angela's filings with them
about Michelle's threats
of violence and rape.
Because what's really happening?
[dramatic music playing]
Holy shit.
Did any of these emails
actually come from Michelle?
Is it possible
that Angela sent all of these emails
to herself?
Holy… fuck.
What really happened in the garage?
Was she attacked in the garage?
Here is Michelle in jail.
And who the hell knows
if that's the right person in jail?
Is Angela the victim
or the perpetrator?
[pensive music playing]
[Ian] Have you talked to Angela at all?
[man] No.
[Ian] Have you tried?
[Leslie] We told the police,
"Please look into this."
"Figure out what's missing.
Go talk to Angela."
-[telephone line ringing]
-[children chattering]
[Cunha] Hey, it's Detective Cunha.
[Angela] Yeah.
[Cunha] Just a couple of questions.
Do you know Jason Rayburn at all?
[tense, pensive music playing]
[Angela] It's a person I dated
a while ago.
[Cunha] Okay.
[Angela] Obviously, much before Ian.
[Cunha] Okay. And then,
did you ever get sick?
Did you ever get sick to the point
where there's talk about you had cancer?
[Angela] There was talk about it.
I went to have
skin cancer biopsies removed,
and I was super stressed out.
[Cunha] Okay, so no chemotherapy
or anything like that?
[Angela] No, absolutely not.
A mindfuck?
[unsettling music playing]
Sorry, but I don't know
if anything that I know about her is true.
[pensive music playing]
[Ian] I can't believe this is happening.
[sighs]
I feel like a fucking idiot.
[Cunha] Who do you think's responsible?
I think Angela did it all.
[music turns ominous]
When I look at these crazy emails,
and the religious stuff and whatever,
the Lilith stuff,
and the Craigslist and the rapist,
that could have been Angela.
I leave the house, bam.
All of a sudden, she's attacked.
I tried to move. He grabbed me.
He had me pinned back
by the hair at the neck.
[Ian] She's behind all this.
It seems like I've been sleeping
with the enemy the entire time.
Team 12's Kevin Kennedy joins us
from the Live Alert Center
with a plot twist.
Kev?
[lively news theme playing]
Michelle Hadley spent four months in jail
for a crime she didn't commit.
Police say she was framed
by a vindictive woman
who was willing to take
extraordinary actions to ruin her life.
I started to question
what her motive was.
At some point,
I just remember Angela asking me
about Ian's relationship with Michelle.
She seemed pretty curious
about how that ended.
[ominous music playing]
At one point, Angela looks over at me,
and she's crying.
And she said, "I just feel like
Michelle is always gonna be in our life."
"We're never going to be able to move on
because she will always be a part of it."
[woman on TV] The judge
used the words "evil, calculated,"
and said what Angela Diaz did
was unlike anything he had seen
in all his years on the bench.
This was a distorted triangle
of relationships
that twisted fantasies
aren't even made up of.
[somber music playing]
[Michelle] They told me I'm free to go
and the charges
have been completely dropped.
-[auspicious music playing]
-[camera shutters clicking]
Freedom was so sweet at that point
because, oh man, I mean,
you don't appreciate it
until you've lost it.
I'm walking down the courthouse steps,
and the media is waiting for me outside.
It's this big moment for me
because they all want to hear
what I have to say.
Obviously, this has been
a huge nightmare for me,
probably the most traumatic
experience of my life.
And I'm glad it's finally over,
and I finally get to move on with my life.
Here's a bizarre
Orange County love triangle.
This is a big story.
[man on TV]
It had all the makings of Law and Order.
A jealous wife,
romantic rivals, blackmail.
I think the media
gleefully grabbed ahold of this narrative
of the crazy woman,
the jealous woman.
And if they couldn't paint me as that,
then they were
just gonna paint Angela as that.
They didn't want to talk about the man.
Nobody wanted to talk about that.
I wanted someone to listen to me.
I wanted to tell someone
what actually happened.
Because there was a lot more to tell.
[music turns dramatic]
[man] I was working
at the Department of Justice
as a criminal investigator
and digital forensic examiner,
investigating cases involving
Department of Justice employees.
My name is Ian. I'm a U.S. Marshal.
Sorry, this is Angela.
[man] Angela Connell had pleaded guilty
to charges relating to framing
Ian Diaz's ex-girlfriend, Michelle Hadley.
Ian Diaz was
a Deputy United States Marshal
and a Department of Justice employee.
I mean, we had an obligation
to go back to look at the case again.
So we reached out
to Anaheim Police Department…
[tense, pensive music playing]
…and they provided us
with their case file.
One of the first things I did
was listen to the interview with Ian Diaz.
[music stops]
[man] This is, to put it lightly,
a monster of a case.
Our job is to find out who's doing what,
and that's why
we pulled you in here to talk to you.
We appreciate you coming in
and making a statement.
[Ian] Right, tell me some good news
because my heart is up.
-[man] Okay.
-[Ian] What is going on?
[Jason] My general impression
of Ian and his responses
is that he's a bit anxious.
[pensive music playing]
In addition to those recordings,
there were a few things
in the body camera footage
that jumped out to me.
There is a scene
where Ian leaves the living room
while Angela is talking to the police.
[officer 1] The specifics of that.
-Like, exactly when it…?
-[officer 1] Time? Date?
Oh, no, she doesn't say,
like, on December 16th.
Ian is clearly listening
to what Angela is saying
and provides her information
from the side.
No, she doesn't do that.
[Ian] She says, "I'm coming over tonight."
She always says that.
She always says that threat of, like,
"I'm coming over tonight.
I'm coming over."
It sounds to me
as if Ian is trying to coach Angela.
[officer 2] The last email was at 5:30?
-5:33.
-[officer 2] 5:33.
[Ian] No, there was one just now.
-That's why we called them.
-Oh! Oh, yeah.
-Sorry.
-[Ian] Yeah, no, there was one…
[Angela] I was like,
"What? Why are you here?"
[pensive music continues]
It certainly makes me think
that Ian is involved.
In addition, one of the things I noticed
was Ian has tremendous animus
toward Michelle.
You guys have been here a whole boatload.
-[female officer] Regarding the same girl?
-Regarding the same bitch.
This ex-girlfriend of mine
has it out for this woman
because she fucking hates her
and hates the fact
that I'm not with her anymore.
I mean, his desire to have her locked up
struck me as rather odd.
[Ian] She needs to be in fucking cuffs
and in a padded room.
[pensive music continues]
[Jason] And so we meet with Michelle
to interview her and get a sense
of what she would be like as a witness.
[music fades]
[Michelle] I thought, "Okay,
this is my chance to tell my story."
There are a lot of misconceptions
about what happened to me.
And until you really understand it
through my eyes,
you don't know anything about my story
and why what happened to me happened.
[man] I need to get a bit more detailed
into your relationship with Ian.
[Michelle] Sure.
[man] Anything strange happen,
that you might have said, "What the heck?"
[Michelle] Yeah, I guess
I kind of have to back up.
-[inhales, exhales]
-[poignant music playing]
We came to realize
there was much more to Michelle's story
than we had previously known.
[exhales]
[Michelle] Early in the relationship,
I'm on a break at work,
and Ian calls me to talk to me.
And I'm right outside my work building.
And he tells me, "Hey,
I have this fantasy that I want to watch
you have sex with another man."
[music turns unsettling]
Oh, my heart immediately dropped
because I thought… [groans]
…"Here it is."
We're not compatible in this area.
Obviously, people have
different fantasies.
That's normal.
A lot of people are into different things.
If I were actually to describe
myself to people,
I would have put "wholesome"
right at the top of the list.
Like, I was that
little all-American girl who…
I had never done any drugs.
I had waited until I was 21
to drink alcohol.
I was so wholesome. [laughs]
Like, almost sickeningly wholesome.
[laughs] But I thought he was too.
I was not expecting any of this.
[somber music playing]
He would bring it up
over and over and over again,
multiple times a week.
I would say, "I don't like this at all."
"This is making me
fell really uncomfortable."
"I don't want to do it,
and I've told you."
[man] How come at that point you say,
"This isn't working for me"?
[Michelle] Well, I did a couple times.
I would cry, tell him I was done with it.
I couldn't take it anymore.
But then he would backpedal.
He would be like,
"No, I was-- it was just talk." You know?
But then he starts sending me
links to profiles on Craigslist
of men he wants to do this with.
[unsettling music playing]
I hadn't dated a lot before this.
So I thought,
maybe this is just
what women had to do in relationships.
Like, maybe this was normal.
And I told him, like, "Okay,
if I do it this once,
I don't ever want to hear about it again."
And I just remember feeling like…
-[exhales raggedly]
-[music fades]
…like a beautiful part of me had died.
Because it was…
[inhales, exhales]
just this part of myself that…
[inhales]
…had existed outside of
all of this ugliness in the world.
[poignant music playing]
And he just fucking killed it.
[sniffles]
[man] When did this…
this act actually happen?
February 14th.
[man] Now, after that happened
in February 14th, you stayed?
[Michelle] I stayed with him, yeah.
I thought that
if I let him scratch this itch,
that we could move past this.
-[man ] Um, did you guys get engaged too?
-[Michelle] Yeah.
I thought if we got engaged,
then maybe the relationship was gonna be
on the right track after this.
[Jason] Hearing Michelle's story
about his pressuring her
from very early on in their relationship
to have sex with another man,
that's clearly a red flag.
But what happened after they got engaged
was particularly helpful
for purposes of our investigation.
[pensive music playing]
[man] When did you move
into the apartment complex
over at South Anaheim?
It was about two months
after we got engaged that
Ian actually brought up
the decision to buy together.
That's when everything went south.
Ian starts asking me
to change things about myself.
It starts off with smaller things,
like he wants me to get fake nails.
Then he wants me to get
a belly button piercing
because he thinks it would be hot.
He starts asking me
to dress in certain ways,
so he'll pick out outfits for me,
and, uh, tell me
when he wants me to wear them.
You know, I was
really young at this point,
and I didn't have
a very well-developed sense of self yet.
So when Ian came in
and started to take over,
it was really easy to just step in line.
[music turns unsettling]
Most of my days,
I would just drive to work,
to school,
back home,
back to work,
back to school.
And anytime I would drive
outside of that area,
he would notice.
And I'd get a phone call from him,
and he's like, "Where are you right now?"
It was like he…
he was everywhere.
-[cell phone ringing]
-[messages chiming]
The texts were incessant,
constantly calling me.
But then things started to escalate.
[ominous music playing]
He actually installed security cameras,
but not outside the condo.
He actually installed them inside,
facing the kitchen,
where I would cook.
I just felt like
he always knew exactly where I was
and what I was doing.
The condo was initially
this, like, beautiful dream,
but after a month, it felt like a cage.
It was like I couldn't stay,
but I couldn't leave.
It was-- I don't know how--
Does that make sense?
Where it's like this weird limbo
where you're just stuck.
[unsettling music playing]
It was almost a daily rollercoaster ride.
One minute, he'd be taking me
to Lawry's Steakhouse
and doing this really fancy dinner
and telling me how beautiful I was.
And then the next minute,
he'd be flirting with another girl
and screaming in my face.
-[music fades]
-[engine starts, revs]
One time,
we get into his car,
and he gets very angry at me.
He takes off.
[engine revving]
He's driving really, really fast,
and we get on the freeway.
All of a sudden,
out of nowhere,
he just slams the brakes on hard.
And he tells me, "Get out of the car."
And as I'm about to open the door,
he reaches over me and slams it closed.
And he says,
"What's wrong with you? Are you crazy?"
[tense music playing]
I'm shaking at this point.
He takes the ring off my finger,
and basically tells me
that I'm not getting it back
until I… can learn how to behave myself.
[man] Did you ever report any of that
to the Anaheim Police Department?
-[Michelle] No, I did not.
-[man] Okay. Can I ask why?
[Michelle] Well, I've done
a lot of research online
about abusive relationships with cops,
and I'll be honest,
I thought they might try to protect him.
[poignant music playing]
[Jason] It was heart-wrenching
to hear this story,
how he had manipulated and controlled her.
She didn't want to come forward
because she was afraid.
I think at this point,
I was starting to suspect
Ian Diaz abused his position
as a Deputy United States Marshal.
And so the testimony of Michelle
became significant in our investigation.
[Michelle] I knew I needed to leave.
And so there was one day where I could
hear Ian talking to his friend Leslie.
[tense music playing]
This was my chance to get out…
[car engine starts]
…because I knew he wouldn't do anything
while she was there.
As I drive away,
my hands are literally shaking
on the wheel,
and I'm crying,
hoping to God he doesn't follow me.
At that point, my bank account is drained
because it's all gone into the condo.
My parents' house
was the only place I knew to go.
[music turns poignant]
And I felt like… [inhales sharply]
[exhales]
"I'm here."
[chiming]
[music turns ominous]
But I'm realizing it's not over,
and he has actually no intention
of letting it be over.
[chiming]
He starts sending messages
that made it seem
like he knew where I was.
He's calling me a bitch.
He's calling me the C-word.
He's telling me
that I'm gonna regret this.
[man] What's his endgame?
What's the reason why?
[Michelle] I think his endgame was
to figure out a way to keep the condo
and destroy my life at the same time.
My parents are getting notifications
that they've had
background checks done on them.
It feels like it's escalating
to a really scary place,
especially as Ian
always had his gun with him.
I just felt he was constantly there,
watching me.
-[unsettling music playing]
-[dogs barking]
At this point, I don't really feel
like anywhere is completely safe.
I have never felt fear like that before,
like I was a hunted animal.
I think Ian's fucking crazy at this point.
I think he's a psychopath.
The next step for him
is to try and come and kill me.
I get to a point
where I really am losing my mind.
I just couldn't take it anymore.
[unsettling music continues]
So I wrote a couple
very angry emails to Ian.
And I'm really scared
of what he's going to do.
I leave my phone, my laptop,
all of my devices that I think
he could potentially track me on.
I get into my car.
I'm basically like,
"Get me the fuck out of here."
[ominous music playing]
But as I'm driving,
I feel myself slipping away.
Like my brain just detaching.
I ended up having an almost out-of-body
experience for, like, 24 hours.
And then when I come back out of the fog,
I am in… the middle of nowhere.
I have no idea where I am.
And… I have been picked up
by this Native American family
who found me wandering around.
And it turns out I was in Arizona.
And… they called
um, paramedics and the police,
and they take me to a hospital.
The doctor comes in to, um…
see me and he says, "You know,
this sounds like a dissociative episode."
And he tells me I have complex PTSD
from what I just went through with Ian.
[somber music playing]
So later,
after all this supposed cyberstalking,
when they arrested me,
they read through
these two emails that I sent.
[Cunha] "Get ready, the truth is coming."
"God's law is above all laws,
including the law of man."
So did you write this?
[Michelle] Yeah, that was me.
I'm not really sure how to explain to him.
I don't even really understand
where a lot of it came from
or why I wrote it.
I only ever sent these two emails.
[chimes]
But I was framed
for all this horrible cyberstalking.
-[dogs barking]
-[tires screech]
[car engine revs]
Michelle's story does sound crazy,
that she had, effectively,
a nervous breakdown.
[Michelle] I thought
he'd think I was crazy.
[laughs nervously]
But he didn't. [sobs]
[poignant music playing]
He believed me.
Just-- I felt so much relief.
And for the very first time,
I felt like I had
flipped the script on Ian.
And suddenly,
I was actually the one coming after him.
[tense music playing]
We realized the two religious emails
that she sent Ian are important.
Because we suspected Ian seizes on those
to create the Lilith account
and to create
this other religious language.
He mimics her when he writes these.
And this is evidence that points to Ian,
not Angela.
At this point, we were starting to suspect
that Angela might have
only been a passenger.
And that this was Ian's scheme.
[ominous tone plays]
[suspenseful music playing]
It's important that
we find additional evidence
to support this new theory
that we had
a Deputy United States Marshal, Ian Diaz,
who framed his ex-girlfriend,
Michelle Hadley,
for a crime she did not commit.
We first looked at the night
where Ian and Angela are reporting threats
that Lilith is sending
a rapist to the condo from Craigslist.
It is one of the most significant events
during this scheme.
She's stating that she's going to
have this guy come over.
She'll give him the address, and come over
and rape her and beat her, right?
[Jason] So it was important for us
to find the man on Craigslist, Rick,
because not only was he lured
to the condo under false pretenses,
he may give us information we didn't have
about what happened that night.
[suspenseful music continues]
So it took a little bit of sleuthing
to find Rick,
but we finally tracked him down.
[music fades]
[woman on radio]
Firefighters in Southern California
are battling a wildfire
that's threatening…
[Rick] I want to be anonymous
because I don't want to be known
for my sexual fantasies.
[woman] Saturday,
Los Angeles fire officials…
[Rick] Because I am a single parent
and I didn't want to date at that point,
I was on the Craigslist meeting people
for casual encounters.
[woman continues indistinctly on radio]
[Rick] A rape fantasy, it's actually
a very popular fantasy, I would say.
[pensive music playing]
So I placed an ad on the Craigslist,
and it said,
"I am looking for women who have fantasies
about being raped or forced to perform."
I get this message from Lilithistruth.
Her reply stood out
because she seemed very eager,
almost desperate, to get this done.
I thought it was a bit odd,
so I figured
I'll get her on the phone to voice verify,
just to make sure that this is real.
When I view the body cam footage,
there were a few things that struck me
about what was happening that night.
[pensive music continues]
The first is that Ian is able to identify
and communicate… with Rick on Craigslist.
[Ian] I'm trying to act like a girl,
and I ask him, "What's your number…"
[Jason] When our digital forensics team
looked on his computer,
there was no evidence of Ian going
to 40 or 50 different rape fantasy posts
to find Rick.
He hits the first pitch,
and he gets Rick directly.
The odds of that are just impossible.
This is like a million to one shot.
And then in his laptop backups,
we found Ian using
his personal email account
to jump right in
to this conversation thread
that Rick was having with Lilith
without missing a beat.
Such that Rick thinks
he's communicating with the same person.
[pensive music continues]
Ian asks,
"Are you headed to my place
in Anaheim tonight?"
Now, that certainly begs the question,
how did he know that Rick was coming
to the condo in Anaheim that night?
The only conclusion
is that Ian himself had responded
to the Craigslist fantasy rape ad
using the Lilithistruth email.
This is compelling evidence
Ian Diaz was running the scheme.
[Rick] So when I got this message,
I replied, "I can,
but I need you to voice verify."
[Jason] And now it's Angela Diaz,
pretending to be Lilith,
who actually voice verifies.
[Angela] Hi, Rick, this is Lili.
I just wanted to confirm
tonight at 8 o'clock.
I'll see you then.
[Rick] I heard it was a woman,
so I said, "Well, okay, I'm going to
go down there and get this done."
[pensive music continues]
[Jason] Something else
that jumped out to me.
While Angie is calling
Anaheim Police Department
and reporting that
Michelle Hadley is sending a rapist,
Ian is actively encouraging him
to come to the house.
[pensive music continues]
[Ian] My idea was, yes,
I had her go out there
and open the gate a bit so it'd be open.
I was hoping he'd come up.
I wasn't gonna rough him up or something.
I was just gonna say, "Just have a seat."
'Cause I knew you were coming,
and I was just gonna detain him.
Anyone who's worried that
a potential rapist is coming to your house
doesn't encourage them
to come to the house,
and then unlock the door,
and then unlock the gate.
But in this case,
it's clear Ian and Angela are doing it
to bring Rick to the condo
because they wanted
to frame Michelle Hadley.
In his police interview,
Ian laid this all at Angela's doorstep.
[Ian] I can't believe
this is happening. [sighs]
I feel like a fucking idiot.
[Cunah] Who do you think's responsible?
I think Angela did it all.
Ian wants to suggest that all of this
happened right under his nose.
[Ian] It seems like I've been sleeping
with the enemy the entire time.
But it's clear watching
the body cam footage,
looking at the digital evidence…
and upon interviewing Rick,
that this wasn't the case.
[music stops]
This is Ian pretending to be Michelle
pretending to be Angela
catfishing someone to the condo.
[unsettling music playing]
This is a very complicated case.
This could be confusing to a jury.
Who's impersonating whom,
pretending to be whom?
You know, I need to clear my head
to reflect on how the case
should be presented.
And I'm thinking, "Did Michelle Hadley
pose a real threat to Ian and Angela?"
Of course not.
But how did they persuade the Anaheim
Police Department to lock her up?
So we needed to prove to a jury
that Ian had misused his position
and manipulated
the Anaheim Police Department.
-[officer 1] Hello.
-Hi. Come on in. How are you?
Reviewing the body camera footage
over and over,
we began to figure out how that happened.
The pattern of the scheme
begins with what would be
an otherwise innocuous impersonation
of Michelle Hadley.
I got another email from her,
and I haven't opened and checked it
because I was like…
[officer 1] Okay.
Communications to Angela
that are somewhat threatening…
The last one we got from her
was late last night, and she said,
"You won't have a husband.
Your children won't have a father."
"I hope your punishment is swift."
"I love keeping you waiting
for what is next. Enjoy work tomorrow."
"I'm sure it will be a painfully
enjoyable experience. Michelle."
[Jason] But to the
Anaheim Police Department,
there was nothing they could do.
[officer 2] Okay, it's a criminal threat,
but you can't do anything
until she gets served.
So, restraining order,
and this is the proof of service.
[officer 1] Okay.
And then it slowly ratchets its way up
with grotesque pictures.
These emails have pictures
of decapitated people,
aborted fetuses, decapitated fetuses.
[Jason] But the Anaheim Police Department
are not really acting
when the threat level is low.
[female officer]
It's a misdemeanor, unfortunately.
So Ian and Angela
have to increase the threat level.
Now we're responding
to ads for rape fantasies.
[woman on phone]
Anaheim Police, Dispatcher Scott.
Hi, my name is Angela Diaz,
and I have open cases with Anaheim PD
on a person named Michelle Hadley.
I've been receiving emails today from her
that she has somebody that's going to come
attack me and rape me.
[Jason] Police arrive on scene because,
according to the call they've received,
there's someone there to commit a rape.
Ian can see that they're police officers,
and he is standing there
with his firearm out
to persuade the Anaheim Police Department
that the threat is so severe
that he has to be prepared
to use lethal force
to stop his wife from being attacked.
Just asking to get shot.
-Yeah.
-I would have shot him.
[Jason] This is playacting.
[tense, pensive music playing]
By wearing his badge,
and then by putting it on the table…
[Ian] So…
My name's Ian.
I'm a U.S. Marshal. Sorry, this is Angela.
…Ian is trying to show to them, like,
"I'm one of you,
and you should credit what I say."
[Ian] Had I not emailed him today,
she would have been raped
outside in the courtyard.
Now, trying to persuade them that,
"I've never seen anything like this."
That Michelle Hadley needs to be
in a padded room in cuffs.
She's chilling at her apartment right now,
just pulling all the strings,
manipulating everybody.
And then Ian's effort to manipulate
the Anaheim Police Department
is starting to get traction.
[Ian] At what point does this girl
get arrested for sending this shit
and hiring guys
off Craigslist to rape her?
-I'm just curious.
-[music intensifies]
[Jason] With an imminent threat of rape,
the time that
Anaheim Police Department has to think
continues to get reduced and reduced.
This dragnet ensues, right?
Anaheim Police Department
is racing around the neighborhood.
They put a helicopter in the air.
They're trying to find
this alleged rapist.
[woman 1 on radio] 587…
-[Jason] And then comes the final act.
-[music turns dramatic]
[woman 2 on phone]
911. What's your emergency?
[Angela] Somebody came from behind me
and shoved me against my wall
and started to choke me.
Ian is ratcheting up the level of threat,
the danger that
this… Michelle Hadley poses.
I tried to move. He grabbed me.
He had me pinned back
by the hair at the neck.
He told me,
"Now you're finally going to get raped."
And he ultimately forces them
into acting quickly.
Okay, here's what's gonna happen, okay?
I have the warrant in my car.
And I'm gonna go out there and grab her.
[Jason] Looking at
this timeline of events,
we can understand
how Ian was able to persuade
the Anaheim Police Department
to arrest Michelle Hadley.
[music fades]
[pensive music playing]
Although Ian does
everything he can to cover his tracks,
in digital forensics,
there's always another place
to go looking for conclusive evidence.
As I got deeper and deeper into
Ian's DOJ Marshall Service-issued devices,
it turns out what he had on his computer
was very significant to us.
When you create a Word document,
it's creating temp files
in the background.
So if you lose power
or you forget to hit save,
you can then recover it.
And on Ian's DOJ laptop,
we found fragments
of a Lilithistruth email.
This was evidence that Ian Diaz
is Lilith.
[dramatic music playing]
There it was in black and white.
[unsettling music playing]
It was time to arrest Ian Diaz.
You might remember this story
with a twisted plot out of Orange County.
[somber music playing]
I almost didn't believe it. [laughs]
I immediately went on
to the DOJ's website,
and they actually had a press release
that said that he had been arrested.
So I was like, "Oh my God, it's real."
[woman on TV] The case dates back to 2016.
Ian Diaz and his then-wife, Angela Diaz,
created a twisted plot
against Michelle Hadley.
I knew that there was no chance
that he was going to plead
any other way than not guilty.
He would do everything within his power
um, to prove his innocence.
The ex-boyfriend whom prosecutors
say framed her is convicted.
Guilty on all counts.
And I just remember, you know,
I'm standing at the sink
and I'm looking in the mirror,
and I just remember
looking at myself and thinking,
"You fucking did it."
"You did it."
[sighs]
[somber music playing]
I could not believe it.
I couldn't believe
that this was happening.
I've never felt that sad.
I felt like it was a nightmare.
I needed to wake up.
I just wanted to wake up.
And…
And I couldn't. It was real.
[poignant music playing]
One of the things I noticed
when I first came into the case
was this person named Leslie.
And I realized very early on,
"Okay, here's someone
who is very much in Ian Diaz's corner."
[Leslie] I wouldn't doubt
that people think that I'm blinded
by my friendship with Ian,
and that somehow
I'm missing some deep, dark side of him.
I can't say definitively
that upon interviewing her,
I came away firmly believing that this was
a woman who was in love with him.
But later, as we kind of--
Additional evidence came forward,
that's the conclusion I came to.
[Leslie] I love him with all my heart.
He is like a part of my family.
And I will love him forever,
but I am not in love with Ian.
So there's your side,
my side, and the truth.
But there is no evidence
that anyone could show me
that would make me doubt Ian's innocence.
Because I see
that Angela is a serial imposter,
and she pled guilty to charges.
And an innocent person
does not plead guilty.
[music crescendos, fades]
I think we will never know
exactly what happened in the condo.
Only Ian Diaz and Angela Connell know.
And they're not reliable witnesses.
[unsettling music playing]
But we can try and answer
the question of "Why did Ian do this?"
[exhales]
As much as the condo is part of this,
and he didn't want to lose his home,
to me,
it boils down
to Ian wanting to control someone.
He wanted to control Michelle,
and she got away,
and that made him angry.
So he designed a scheme
to frame his ex-girlfriend.
[music intensifies]
In my view,
Angela Connell was a perfect partner
because she craved empathy.
Angela loved portraying herself
as a victim,
and Ian exploited that.
[dramatic music playing]
[music turns poignant]
[Michelle] Ian got everything he wanted,
but it actually cost him his freedom.
I often look back and wonder
how Ian turned into the person
who wanted control and power over me.
Ian had told me at one point
that he grew up
in a really toxic environment.
And I thought, "Could this possibly
explain his behavior towards me?"
It felt like he actually had
two totally different personalities,
and you never knew
which one you were gonna get.
Were you gonna get this,
like, sex-obsessed fiend,
or were you gonna get the wholesome boy?
And I thought that this personality,
the wholesome one,
was who he really was.
But sadly, the damage had been done.
[poignant music continues]
-[music fades]
-[waves susurrating]
Ian and Angela cast me as Lilith.
[poignant music resumes]
She basically escaped the Garden of Eden,
disobeyed everyone,
Adam, God, the whole group.
She's the quintessential…
uh, revolutionary.
In retrospect, I'm not mad that
they… picked a character for me
who is… a disobedient female
who stands up to male authority figures.
It kind of fits. [laughs]
I just didn't know it then.
But now I'm on this
other side of that journey.
I started to rebuild my life.
You know, I'm getting back into school.
I'm going back to work.
And I start dating again.
Eventually,
I find out I'm pregnant.
I gave birth to my daughter
on the same day Ian was convicted.
[gasps] Look at that. How cool is that?
How cool is that, huh?
That's like what the--
They do with the movies.
-I hope you did fun things today, huh?
-[girl] Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I miss you, baby. I love you.
I miss you.
Aw, I love you too. So sweet.
Kisses. Mwah! [blows kiss]
[laughs]
I miss you.
[poignant music continues]
[Michelle] Raising this beautiful
little girl is my fairy-tale ending.
I think it is happily ever after.
I'm not a princess,
but I get to be the hero in my own story.
[dramatic music playing]
[music fades]